Release Note:  nldas.v2.0.0
V1.0.0 – release March, 2011
EMC quasi-operation version
V2.0.0 – release March 18, 2014
New Implementation on WCOSS
First implementation of the North American Land Data Assimilation System (NLDAS) is to enhance US operational drought monitoring and prediction capabilities and to support the National Integrated Drought Information System (NIDIS) over the Continental United States (CONUS) domain.
Use NARR/RCDAS model data (radiation, 2 m air temperature and specific humidity, 10-m wind speed, surface pressure) for atmospheric forcing.
Use observed precipitation forcing (gauge based, radar temporally disaggregated)
Use bias-corrected downward shortwave radiation via satellite retrieved solar radiation (GOES)
Four individual land surface models (NOAH, MOSAIC, VIC and SAC) are run in an uncoupled mode.  The spatial resolution is 0.125 degree and the temporal resolution is an hour.
River-Routing model uses the surface runoff and baseflow output from the above four models and generates the hourly streamflow .
Jobs/components that will be implemented:
jnldas_prep
jnldas_noah, jnldas_mosaic, jnldas_vic, jnldas_sac
jnldas_rout_noah, jnldas_rout_mosaic, jnldas_rout_vic, jnldas_rout_sac
Output from the models
Forcing data in both grib1 and grib2 format
Model output data in grib2 format
Model restart files
River streamflow data in grib2 format
Computing resource information:
This NLDAS system runs only once per day (12Z).
Total runtime is about 50-60 minutes.
All the jobs will be running in serial mode, and the whole system will use at most 3 processors during the runtime period.
Total disk usage is about 700 Mb per day.
Dissemination info:
The forcing (only the grib2 format), model output data and the river streamflow data (all in grib2 format) will need to be sent out to the public.
Primary Users:
NIDIS
US Drought Monitor
NCEP Climate Prediction Center
Other external users such as Princeton University, University of Washington, NWS/OHD, NASA/GSFC. COLA, Climate Cooperations.
Archive to HPSS:
All of the output data (including the restart files) will need to be archived to HPSS.
